In my last video, I talked about pixel

snapping in upscaled pixel art games and

what I did to fix it in GDAU. In this

tutorial, I'm going to be showing you

step by step how to set up an upscaled

pixel art game and then how to implement

this fix. I know you'll probably have

your own pixel art game setup that you

want to implement this fix in. So, I'll

go pretty quickly through the upscale

setup. So, we'll start by selecting a

node 2D as our root node. Then, we'll

add a camera 2D as a child. And then, we

just have to create a pixel art game.

You might already have a pixel art game

that you're working off. I'm just going

to set one up really quick. making a

background and some floor using a tile

map layer. And I'm using some assets

that I made earlier. I'm also using a

static body 2D to give the floor some

collision so the player doesn't just

fall eternally. And then I'll add the

player themselves. So I'll just add a

character body 2D. And then I'll add a

collision shape 2D to this node to give

the player some collision. And I'll set

that equal to a rectangle collision.

Then I'm going to give the player a

sprite 2D. And I'll attach this

player.png asset I have as the texture.

If your assets are blurry, by the way,

if your pixels are blurring, make sure

you search for the texture property and

set the filter to nearest. Then I'm

going to fit this collision to the

player. And lastly, to make it playable,

I have to attach a script to the

character body 2D. And if we do, GDAU

will automatically populate it with some

code to move around the player. So, if

we give this a run now and select this

as our main scene, you can see we have a

game ready that we can run around in.

Okay, I went quickly through that part

because I'm assuming you already have a

game set up. But the important thing is

that we have a character that can move

and we have a camera 2D. So the next

thing I'm going to do is attach a script

to the camera. I'm just going to call it

sub pixel camera and press create. And

then in the process function, we want to

make the camera follow the player

smoothly. So I'll do position equals

position.lurp open and close soft

brackets. For the first value, we'll get

a reference to our player and we'll get

their position. And for the second

thing, we'll put delta * 3. If we play

this now, you can see the camera

smoothly follows the player. And now all

that's left for the setup is to upscale

our game. So I'm going to create a new

scene and we're going to make a root 2D

node and we're going to call it main.

Then we'll add a child and we'll add a

sub viewport container. And then as a

child of that, we'll add a sub viewport.

And then from our file system, we can

just drag and drop our game scene and

we'll drop it as a child of subviewport.

And then we have some settings here to

change. So in the sub viewport, if we go

over to the inspector, we're going to

change size. And this is going to be

your native render resolution before we

upscale. So I'm going to have 480 pixels

by 270 pixels on screen. And if we

upscale this by four, we'd get 1920x

1080, which is what we need to fill the

monitor. I just noticed there my game

isn't actually child of subviewport. So

make sure it is. And now when we press

play, I want it to run our main scene

instead of our game scene. So I'll go

into the project settings. I'll go to

run and I'll change it here. And if we

play this now, you can see the game is

rendering up there at 480x270. So the

next step is to upscale. And that's

really easy to do. We just have to click

on the sub viewport container, go down

in the inspector to scale and set it to

four. And if we play this now, you can

see it fills the screen. But you can

also see that my textures are blurry. So

I'm going to fix this by going to my

game node. And in the inspector, I'll

search for filter. And I'm going to

change that property to nearest. And I'm

also going to do that exact same thing

for the sub viewport container node. And

you can see when I play this now, our

pixel art is no longer blurry, and it's

being upscaled correctly. While we're

here, I'll add a shader to the sub

viewport container. So, I'll click on

it. I'll search for material in the

inspector. New shader material. Click on

this shader material. Go to shader, new

shader, and we'll just call this sub

pixel or whatever you want. And if we

open it up, this is going to be really,

really simple. We're just going to

create a new variable or uniform as it's

called in this shader language of type

veset and set it equal to a new ve 2

that's just 0.0 for both values. Then,

in void vertex, we want to move the

screen by this offset. So we'll do

vertex plus equals cam offset. And don't

forget you have to put semicolons when

you're in this shader language for both

lines that we added. Now you can see if

it works by going into shader parameters

and if you adjust this x and y value,

you can see we're moving the viewport.

So that works perfectly. Next up, we're

going to head back over to the camera

script and we're going to create a new

variable called actual cam pass and it's

going to be of type vector 2. Then when

we're setting the camera's position,

let's replace position with actual cam

pass. And just to make sure there's no

confusion, we're going to be moving it

to the player's global position instead

of just their position. And now to get

our offset, which is the distance

between the camera's sub pixel position

and the nearest pixel perfect position,

we can create a new variable called cam

sub pixel offset and set it equal to

actual camos. minus actual camos. And

now we just have to send that offset to

our shader. So we're in the camera

script. So our parent is the game node

and then the parent of that is our

viewport. And the parent of that is our

sub viewport container which has the

script attached. So I'm going to do it

the lazy way and just say get parent.get

parent.get parent. But you should really

do this in a singleton because this is

really bad. And then we do do material

set shader parameter the name of the

uniform we created in the shader which I

set to cam offset. Put that in in quotes

and then pass in our cam sub pixel

offset. And then the last thing we have

to do is set our camera's position equal

to actual camos. Again, I'm using global

position there to avoid any confusion.

And if we press play on this now, you

can see that our camera is moving

smoothly. And we're only left with one

slight problem. And you can kind of see

that at the top especially, but all the

edges and corners of the screen, you can

see them kind of jittering. And that's

because we're moving the viewport. And

it's leaving this empty transparent

space behind. So, we can fix that by

going to our sub viewport and rendering

two extra pixels on the X and Y, which

means one at the top and bottom and one

at the left and right. And then if we

click on sub viewport container and go

to position, set this to minus whatever

you're scaling your game up by. So I'm

scaling it up by four. So I'll set it to

minus4 minus4. And if we press play, you

can see all the edges of the screen are

no longer jittering. And we have our

smooth camera movement. Perfect. These

files will be available for download on

my Patreon, which you can access by

supporting me. And I also want to thank

everyone very much for supporting me on

Patreon because I would not be able to

make these videos without you guys.

Thanks for watching. Thanks for the

support. and see you in the next video.


